Hi everyone!
Today we will start a new section.
Section nine lists.
Let's learn together more about Python lists.
Lists are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
Lists are one of four built in data types in Python used to store collection of data.
The other three are tuple, set, and dictionary.
Lists are created using square brackets.
List items are indexed.
The first item has index zero, the second has the index one, etc. list items are ordered, changeable
and a low duplicate value.
Let's understand more about each word in this sentence.
What is mean ordered?
When we say that lists are ordered, it means that the item have a defined order and the order will
not change.
If you add new items to a list, the new items will be placed at the end of the list.
There are some list methods that will change the order, but in general the order of the items will
not change.
Changeable.
The list is tangible, meaning that we can change, add and remove items in a list after it has been
created.
Allow duplicates.
Since lists are indexed, lists can have items with the same value here.
In this example we have.
Apple is duplicated and also cherry is duplicated.
To know how many items a list has, we use the function length.
List items can be of any data type.
It can be a list of strings.
It can be a list of integer.
It can be a list of Boolean or in the same list we can have string, integer, and boolean.
From Python perspective, lists are defined as objects with the data type list.
When executing the function type in any list, we will have the result class list.
Let's execute some of these examples to learn more about lists.
Here we have a list.
The output.
It will be the same.
Define it with.
Contain three element list.
We said that the list is indexed and start from the index zero.
Here this list contain duplicate values.
We have.
Banana is duplicated, Apple is duplicated, and cherry is duplicated.
To know how many items in the list, we use the function length.
Here we have three items.
The result it is three list items contain different data types.
It can be a list of string, can be a list of integer, and also it can be a list of boolean.
We can have different data types in the same list.
This is list.
This list contains string, integer and boolean.
When execute the type function to a list, we will have that the list is of type class list.
Class list.
Next.
The list constructor.
It is also possible to use the list constructor when creating a new list.
Here this is an example list.
This is the constructor and we will add the value inside this constructor.
Note the double round the brackets.
The first is for the constructor list and the second is for the values.
Let's execute this example.
And we create our list from the constructor list.